#summary System requirements to use this module

= Module Requirements =

In addition to the [http://simplesamlphp.org/docs/trunk/simplesamlphp-install#section_3 SimpleSAMLphp Prerequisites], this module has the following requirements:

  * PHP cURL extension must be enabled
  * PHP PDO extension (and specific driver) must be enabled
  * SimpleSAMLphp data directory must be writable

=== cURL Extension ===

This module utilizes the highly used [http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.curl.php PHP cURL extension] to communicate with the Google Apps API via HTTP. Verify that it is enabled by checking the [http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.phpinfo.php php_info()] for a cURL section. To enable, modify your php.ini file and un-comment the extension.

=== PDO Extension ===

In order to provide provisioning delay's and username change tracking, this module saves information into a database. It supports [http://www.php.net/manual/en/book.pdo.php PDO] so different database backend products can be used. Verify that it is enabled by checking the [http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.phpinfo.php php_info()] for a PDO section. To enable, modify your php.ini file and un-comment the extension and specific driver extension.

=== Data Directory ===

Not many other modules use the *`simplesamlphp/data`* directory so it may not be writable by PHP. This module saves temporary Google Apps API connection information here. Please make sure the proper permissions are set so that SimpleSAMLphp can write to the directory.